---
layout: project.html
collection: projects
title: A Gangsi from Dongnae
thumb: Gangsi.png
order: 0299216
images:
  -
    name: Gangsi00.png
    alt:  Gangsi Jiangshi Korea Traditional Monster Vampire Character Illustration
  -
    name: Gangsi01.png
    alt: Gangsi Jiangshi Korea Traditional Monster Vampire Character Illustration Detail
  -
    name: Gangsi02.png
    alt: Gangsi Jiangshi Korea Traditional Monster Vampire Character Illustration Detail
  -
    name: Gangsi03.png
    alt: Gangsi Jiangshi Korea Traditional Monster Vampire Character Illustration Detail
  -
    name: GangsiProcessLow.gif
    alt: Gangsi Jiangshi Korea Traditional Monster Vampire Character Illustration Process

tools:
  - photoshop
---
I have seen recently a TV show set in the XVII century in Korea. It is very refined and detail-oriented, mainly with clothes, tools, and architecture, which were all surprisingly beautiful. I did not know anything about this period and the show has aroused my curiosity. This is the reason why I have been looking at a lot of Korean traditional art. I wanted to draw something related to all this, and I preferred to draw something grimmer since my last works have been kind of bright and nice. So I started to look for monsters in Korean mythology, and I found the **gangsi**, better known as **jiangshi** or *Chinese hopping vampire*.

The **jiangshi** legends are very interesting: they are a mix of vampires and hungry ghosts, with green skin and white hair. They hop, that is right, and bite, and can kill you to eat your *qi* or life force. If you have some curiosity, you can check [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jiangshi). They are very popular in East Asia and even have a film and literature genre!

For the drawing, I used references of *hanboks* (the traditional dresses) and hairstyles. I tried to maintain simplicity in the clothes and hair complements, and to use colors that enhance the greenish-white skin. I chose a bright zenithal light, which provided a fine blending of shades and an ample range of tones. The blood was great to add contrast and, at the same time, to add more texture and to play with different brushes. The general textures were also slightly unpolished to have a little bit more of grittiness and to create interest. As final touches, I did a seal with the word **gangsi** in Korean, and I put some gradients in the background as in the Asian woodblock prints (I am a big fan of these).

I enjoyed this drawing very much, especially the lightwork, the subtle copper colors, and the texture of the blood. It was fun and not so hard as I have thought, so I will have to create more monsters like this one.  

I will have to save the beautiful *inmyeonjo* for another drawing!  
